##Methods

__Experimental Design.__ To simulate nutrient enrichment on S. nigricans territories, a field experiment was conducted on a fringing reef in Mo’orea, French Polynesia. Five S. nigricans territories were enriched next to five control territories.  Five nylon pouches containing 50g of slow-release fertilizer (Osmocote; 19-6-12, N-P-K) were secured into 6cm3  hardware cloth cages on each enriched territory for 14 days. The cages were attached to coral with nails and zipties and monitored daily to prevent any dislodging over the course of the experiment. Territories were all within ~20m of each other and chosen based on proximity to shore (~15m), presence of S. nigricans, and presence of Porites spp., which provided flat surfaces to secure the nutrient cages onto. A total of five territories were enriched and five control territories were treated with empty nutrient pouches to control for any effects due to the presence of the cages. One fish from each territory was collected via spear and clove oil. While the fish were not tagged, fish from the enriched territories were significantly larger than the controls, suggesting effective nutrient loading had occurred (Loma et al. 2000). 

__Gut microbiome sample processing and sequencing.__ The intestines of each fish were dissected using sterile techniques (Givens et al. 2015) and gut contents from the lower intestine were stored in 2ml tubes for extractions. To isolate bacterial DNA, samples were extracted with MoBio Powersoil Extraction kits following the manufacturer’s instructions. 16S libraries were generated using primers 515F and 806R targeting the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. Samples underwent PCR in  triplicate 25 ul reactions using Qiagen Multiplex PCR kit with the following thermocycler conditions: 1 cycle of 94 oC for 3 min; 35 cycles of 94 oC for 45 s, 50 oC for 60 s and 72 oC for 90 s; and 1 cycle of 72 oC for 10 min. Once validated on an agarose gel, triplicate reactions were pooled and cleaned using Agencourt AMPure magnetic beads. The samples were then dual-indexed using the Nextera XT Indexing kit from Ilumina and then cleaned a second time with AMPure magnetic beads. Before the final pooling, quantification was performed using a Qubit dsDNA BR kit from Invitrogen to ensure samples were pooled into equimolar ratios. The pooled library was then sent for sequencing on an Ilumina Miseq v3 at the University of California Berkeley Genomics Sequencing Laboratory Core. 

__Data quality control and analysis.__ The resulting sequence libraries were run through the QIIME2 (v. 2019.7) microbiome data science platform (Bolyen et al., 2018) for quality control, amplicon sequence variant (ASV) taxonomy assignment, and community diversity analyses. Data was demultiplexed and denoised using dada2 (Callahan et al., 2016) and merged into a qiime2 feature table for analysis. ASVs were assigned taxonomy using a naive Bayes taxonomy classifier trained on Greengenes (DeSantis et al., 2006) reference sequences clustering at 99% similarity.



